# 内存模型

https://golang.google.cn/ref/mem

go内存模型，规定了保证一个goroutine读取被其他goroutine写的变量的条件；

程序中，被多个goroutine同时修改的数据，必须保证多个goroutine串行访问这个数据；保证串行化访问数据的方式有：channel、sync和sync\atomic。

# happens before
内存重排会打乱预期的代码执行顺序；

To specify the requirements of reads and writes, we define happens before, a partial order on the execution of memory operations in a Go program. If event e1 happens before event e2, then we say that e2 happens after e1. Also, if e1 does not happen before e2 and does not happen after e2, then we say that e1 and e2 happen concurrently.

When multiple goroutines access a shared variable v, they must use synchronization events to establish happens-before conditions that ensure reads observe the desired writes.

Program initialization runs in a single goroutine, but that goroutine may create other goroutines, which run concurrently.

If a package p imports package q, the completion of q's init functions happens before the start of any of p's.

The start of the function main.main happens after all init functions have finished.

The go statement that starts a new goroutine happens before the goroutine's execution begins.
goroutine的创建发生在goroutine的执行之前。

channel communication
Channel communication is the main method of synchronization between goroutines. Each send on a particular channel is matched to a corresponding receive from that channel, usually in a different goroutine.

The closing of a channel happens before a receive that returns a zero value because the channel is closed.

The kth receive on a channel with capacity C happens before the k+Cth send from that channel completes.

This program starts a goroutine for every entry in the work list, but the goroutines coordinate using the limit channel to ensure that at most three are running work functions at a time.

```golang
//协程池
var limit = make(chan int, 3)

func main() {
	for _, w := range work {
		go func(w func()) {
			limit <- 1
			w()
			<-limit
		}(w)
	}
	select{}
}
```

mutex

A single call of f() from once.Do(f) happens (returns) before any call of once.Do(f) returns.
