# copy

copy(dst, src []T) int
copy(dst []byte, src string) int

var a = [...]int{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}
var s = make([]int, 6)
var b = make([]byte, 5)
n1 := copy(s, a[0:])            // n1 == 6, s == []int{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
n2 := copy(s, s[2:])            // n2 == 4, s == []int{2, 3, 4, 5, 4, 5}
n3 := copy(b, "Hello, World!")  // n3 == 5, b == []byte("Hello")

# panic

Calling a nil function value causes a run-time panic.


如果运行时移位计数为负数，则会发生运行时死机。

For an operand x of pointer type *T, the pointer indirection *x denotes the variable of type T pointed to by x. If x is nil, an attempt to evaluate *x will cause a run-time panic.

A receive operation on a closed channel can always proceed immediately, yielding the element type's zero value after any previously sent values have been received.

# select
https://lessisbetter.site/2018/12/17/golang-selete-advance/

If one or more of the communications can proceed, a single one that can proceed is chosen via a uniform pseudo-random selection. Otherwise, if there is a default case, that case is chosen. If there is no default case, the "select" statement blocks until at least one of the communications can proceed.

# make与new

slice使用make，引用类型使用make；
array使用new，值类型使用new；

The built-in function make takes a type T, which must be a slice, map or channel type, optionally followed by a type-specific list of expressions.

make()：对应map、slice、channel都是引用类型；在函数内部修改值后，外部的值也会跟着改变。

# append

If the capacity of s is not large enough to fit the additional values, append allocates a new, sufficiently large underlying array that fits both the existing slice elements and the additional values. Otherwise, append re-uses the underlying array.

# recover
```go
func protect(g func()) {
	defer func() {
		log.Println("done")  // Println executes normally even if there is a panic
		if x := recover(); x != nil {
			log.Printf("run time panic: %v", x)
		}
	}()
	log.Println("start")
	g()
}
```

# map

The comparison operators == and != must be fully defined for operands of the key type; thus the key type must not be a function, map, or slice.

https://golang.google.cn/ref/spec#Comparison_operators

## delete
If the map m is nil or the element m[k] does not exist, delete is a no-op.





